.. _whatsnew-1.0:

***************************************
What's New in `macro_lightning` v1.0.X?
***************************************

Bug fixes (in X releases) are annotated with `@X`

Overview
========

Using the template from `@nstarman <https://github.com/nstarman/project_template>`_, which is a forked from the Astropy-affiliate template.

This release includes:

* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-framework`
* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-physics`
* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-parameters`
* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-plot`
* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-data`
* :ref:`whatsnew-1.0-utils`


.. _whatsnew-1.0-framework:  

Framework
=========

- :mod:`~macro_lightning.physics` for physics functions
- :mod:`~macro_lightning.parameters` for astronomical parameters
- :mod:`~macro_lightning.plot` for plotting constraints
- :mod:`~macro_lightning.utils` for utilities


.. _whatsnew-1.0-physics:

Physics
=======

Physics functions for calculating a variety of previously derived constraints. None of these functions are used in the macro derivation.

	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.CMB`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.nuclear_density`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.black_hole`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.atomic_density`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.KeplerTop`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.physics.LMCTop`


.. _whatsnew-1.0-parameters:

Parameters
==========

Solar system parameters for calculating infall velocities.

	- :func:`~macro_lightning.parameters.solar_system_vesc_params`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.parameters.vesc_sun_at_R`


.. _whatsnew-1.0-plot:

Plot
====

Reference densities, such as atomic, nuclear, and black hole. Also a function to plot all reference densities.

	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_atomic_density_line`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_nuclear_density_line`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_black_hole_line`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_reference_densities`

Plotting functions related to constraint plots.

	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_mica_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_white_dwarf_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_cmb_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_superbursts_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_humandeath_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_dfn_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_lensing_constraints`
	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.plot_black_hole_constraints`

And a contextmanager for quick creation of new plots.

	- :func:`~macro_lightning.plot.constraints_plot`


.. _whatsnew-1.0-data:

Data
====
Functions to load the data.

    - :func:`~macro_lightning.data.load_mica_constraints`
    - :func:`~macro_lightning.data.load_superbursts_polygons`
    - :func:`~macro_lightning.data.load_humandeath_constraints`
    - :func:`~macro_lightning.data.load_whitedwarf_constraints`


.. _whatsnew-1.0-utils:

Utils
=====
Functions to work with lists of :class:`~astropy.units.Quantity`.
These first convert the list of quantities to a quantity list, which can natively work with numpy functions.

    - :func:`~macro_lightning.utils.as_quantity`
    - :func:`~macro_lightning.utils.qsquare`
    - :func:`~macro_lightning.utils.qnorm`